
Selling the Couch with Melvin Varghese, Ph.D. | Weekly conversations to build and grow your counseling private practice
Selling the Couch with Melvin Varghese, Ph.D. | Weekly conversations to build and grow your counseling private practice
129:Marketing Strategies That Come from a Place of Service
128: Using Your Passion for a Specific Population to Expand Your Practice
127: Success Tips for Transitioning to Group Therapy with Sue Marriott
126: My Struggle to Find a Niche
125: Finding and Owning your Superpowers as a Private Practitioner
124: Building Your Business Through the Adversities of Life
123: Practicing Mindfulness
122: Creative Ways to Scale Your Business Into Multiple Streams of Income
121: 5 Podcasting Myths and How to Avoid Them
120: How to Set Fees for Your Private Practice
119: A Mid-Career Transition to Therapy
118: Tips and Tricks to Creating Your First E-Course
117: How to Market and Fill Up Your Newly Created Groups
116: Starting a Group Within Your Private Practice
115: Thinking Outside the Box to Grow Your Practice!
114: How to Turn Prospects into Clients
113: Moving from a Private Practice to a Group Practice
112: Designing and Creating an App for Your Business
111: Making Live Presentations and Workshops Part of Your Revenue Model
110: How to Become Known in Your Niche by Your Own Community
109: Creating a Therapeutic Board Game Around Mindfulness
108: How to Focus on Your ONE Thing
107: Building a Private Practice Around Your Passion
106: Changing Careers to Become a Private Practice Clinician
105: Transitioning from Private Practitioner to CEO
104: Does Your Practice Need an Online Business Manager?
103: Best Practices for Your Private Practice Website
102: Using SEO to Grow Your Private Practice
101: How to Establish a Therapeutic Group in Your Practice
100: Celebrating 100 Episodes with Practice Building Tips!
99: Lessons from Building A Practice to 100 Clients 
98: Considerations for Writing a Book
97: 5 Benefits of Napping
96: Tips for Growing Your Private Practice
95: Using Strengths to Address Weaknesses
94: Fears and Challenges in Growing Your Private Practice
93: How Comparison Can Steal Your Joy 
92: My Morning Routine and Productivity
91: Targeting Demographics vs. Diagnoses in Your Private Practice
90: Trends in Healthcare
89: Build & Expand Referral Networks with Clinicians & Non-Clinicians 
88: Navigating Digital Communication in Your Practice
87: Finding the Right Location for Your Practice
86: Electronic Health Records - What You Need to Know
85: Saying No As A Private Practice Business Owner
84: Freshen Your Website and Wow Your Clients
83: Persevering in Your Private Practice Journey
82: Surviving Tough Times in Private Practice
81: Experiences in Private Practice 
80: Taking Your Counseling Practice Online - Part 2
79: The Ins and Outs of Online Counseling
78: Facebook Ads to Boost Your Blog Post
77: Using Public Speaking to Grow Your Private Practice
76: Taking on an Entrepreneurial Mindset
75: Introducing a Sliding Scale Platform
74: Using Story to Connect with Clients
73: Ergonomics for Clinicians
72: More Myths of Setting Your Private Practice Fees
71: 5 Myths of Setting Your Practice Fees
70: Creating an Outside the Box Niche Private Practice 
69: Creating an Effective Online Profile
68: Integrating Supervision into Private Practice
67: Podcasting as a Private Practice Clinician
66: Balancing Private Practice and Parenting
65: Transitioning from Private Practice to Consulting 
64: Increasing Efficiency in Your Private Practice
63: Building a heart-centered private practice
62: Building an Insurance-Based Private Practice
61: Navigating the Messy Middle: Private Practice One Year Later
60: Switching Your Credentials for Solo Practice
59: Create an Amazing About Page 
58: Creating a Membership Website
57: Transitioning from Group to Private Practice with Brian Zirngible
56: Overcoming Adversity with Tanner Gers
55: Distribution, Pricing and Payments for Your E-Course
54: Researching and Finding an Audience for Your E-Course
53: Overcoming Entrepreneurial Burnout
52: How to Expand Your Practice and Add Other Clinicians
51: Overcoming Money Shame
50: Tips for Building an Awesome Website
49: Transitioning from Employee to Private Practice
48: Creating Multiple Streams of Income
47: Overcoming Your Private Practice Fears
46: Preparing for Private Practice Before You Graduate
45: Secret of an Effective Psychology Today Profile
44:  Common Mistakes Almost Every New Private Practitioner Makes
43: Using Periscope to Connect with Your Audience
42: Using Video To Promote Your Practice
41: Building Great Mastermind Groups
40: SEO To Get Found......Even Locally
39: Leveraging In-Person Networking to Grow Your Practice
38:  Increase Your Reach With A LinkedIn Blog
37: The Expert Guide to Private Practice Blogging
36: Transitioning From Clinician To Trainer
35: Growing Your Practice With Retreats, Workshops and Groups
34: Planning to Achieve Your Goals
33: How Nutrition Improves Your Practice
32: Using Podcasting to Grow and Build Your Practice
31: Building a Passionate Private Pay Practice
30:  Practical Tips for Easy Case Notes
28: Share the Book in You With The World
27: Get More Clients Without Marketing
26: Unlocking the Profits in Couple Therapy
25: Instagram the Easy Way
24: Practice Building Tips From an Intern
23: Creating a Winning Email List
22: The Miracle Morning Improves Productivity
21: Using ADHD to Rewire Your Private Practice
20: Using Pinterest to Drive Traffic to Your Website
19: Private Practice Success
18: Using Video To Market Your Practice
17: Pricing for Growth
16: Build a Private Practice You Love
15: Conquering Fear to Grow Your Practice
14: How To Run A Successful Therapy Business
13: Lessons from Starting a Podcast and Blog
12: How To Leverage Facebook Ads
11: Private Practice Taking Flight!
10: Landing Local Media Interviews
9: Balancing Life and Private Practice
8: Successful Paralegal to Blossoming Therapist
7: How to (Really) Build Trust on Your Website
6: On Being a Counselor and Pro Blogger 
5: Great Audio Made Easy 
4: Building a Private Pay Practice
3:  How to Stand Out on Twitter 
2: 5 Years And A Thriving Private Practice
1: Lessons from 15 Years in Private Practice 
0: Intro and What to Expect 
Selling the Couch is the #1 podcast for aspiring and current mental health private practitioners.  Psychologist Melvin Varghese interviews successful therapists about the business side of private practice (e.g., how they get referrals, their best advice for new practitioners, their daily habits, etc.) as well as the world's top business, marketing, and social media experts to help you become a better business owner.  What you get are bite sized, practical and no nonsense tips and advice to guide your private practice and entrepreneurial journey.
  Today’s guest is Allison Puryear, LCSW, CEDS, and she’s here to talk about a topic that many find full of panic, anxiety, and struggle. We’re talking about the idea of marketing; how do we market in a way that is kind, authentic, and from a place of service? Allison has a great framework for creating marketing strategies that are kind and graceful. I hope you’ll join us for this conversation and take advantage of Allison’s tips for terrific marketing! Resources: Visit Allison’s website: www.abundancepracticebuilding.com Visit Allison’s website for her monthly subscription group and find e-courses, scripts, templates, and MORE!  www.abundanceparty.com     Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session129 
My guest today is Laura Vaillancourt, LHMC, a geriatric mental health specialist in Olympia, WA. Laura is doing amazing things in serving the elderly, providing a variety of services including case management and assessments. Part of her work includes consulting with other geriatric caregivers and facilities. Our conversation gives an opportunity to think about what can grow and evolve when you focus on serving a population for which you have a genuine passion. Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session128
My guest today is Sue Marriott, LCSW, in Austin, Texas. She has run multiple therapy groups, even some long-term groups that have run for over a decade! Sue shares her inspiration, marketing techniques, and what it takes to make the switch to group therapy, along with her favorite tips for making group therapy successful! Join us! Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session127  
I’m going solo today to have an honest conversation about My Struggle with Finding a Niche. It’s been a difficult path that stills feel a little raw and emotional for me as I’ve taken the leap back into private practice this year. Join me now as I share some thoughts and tips I’ve picked up along the way. Resources: Selling The Couch Today’s Awesome Sponsor: Brighter Vision You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session126
My guest today is Annie Schuessler, MFT, who coaches clinicians through her private practice in California. Our topic is a fun but important one: Finding and Owning your Superpowers as a private practitioner. We’re each gifted in some ways, but the challenge is often sifting through it all and focusing on what we’re best at. Then we have to know how to delegate or de-emphasize the rest. The process can be a struggle, but I hope this conversation will help you know it’s ok to be you and help you own what you’re good at. Resources: Today's Show Sponsor: Brighter Vision www.coachingwithannie.com Look for Annie’s podcast: Therapist Clubhouse You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session125
Today’s guest is Daniela Tempesta, LCSW, who has a private practice in San Francisco. She has an amazing story to share about starting and re-starting her practice while dealing with the sudden loss of her mother. She’s written a NY Times article about her experience in continuing to build her business when life brings unexpected adversity. Daniela’s story speaks of the resilience and courage she found to keep moving forward, and it may be just what you need to hear today. Join us! Resources: Find out more about Daniela at www.danielalcsw.com Today’s Awesome Sponsor: Brighter Vision You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session124  
Today’s guest is Kim Engstrom, a colleague who practices in my local area, just south of Philadelphia.  Our topic is perfect for my return after a break; it’s about practicing mindfulness. As practitioners, we must learn to take time for ourselves, even when we’re battling the daily grind. Mindfulness is a basic idea, but a powerful medium that can be helpful for anyone, no matter what your profession. Let’s join Kim to hear what mindfulness means for her and how she fits it into her life. Resources: Today’s Awesome Sponsor: Brighter Vision Find out more about Kim: www.kimengstrom.com  Email Kim:  ke.counselingservices@gmail.com  The Power of Now by Eckhart Tolle A favorite mindfulness app: Headspace You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session123
My guest today is Nicole Liloia, LCSW in New Jersey. We’re talking about thinking outside the box when it comes to creating multiple income streams and scaling our businesses. Nicole has the experience to teach us how to NOT be dependent on trading time for income. Want to know more? Join us! Resources: www.nicoleliloia.com (Find out more about Nicole's work) www.nicoleliloia.com/batchlikeaboss  (Find Nicole’s resource, Batch Like a Boss!) Find Nicole on all social media platforms: @Nicole Liloia www.upwork.com (Find freelancers when you need them!) www.fiverr.com (A global online marketplace of tasks and services) www.toggl.com  (Learn how to track your time!)  The E-Myth Revisited by Michael E. Gerber Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session122
Welcome to this solo episode! I’m talking today about all the things I thought I knew about podcasting that turned out NOT to be true. I want to help you avoid these mistakes if you’re considering embarking on your own podcasting journey. My podcasting journey spans almost 2-1/2 years now, which is still hard for me to believe. So, here we go; let’s jump right into Five Podcasting Myths and How to Avoid Them. Resources:  The E-Myth Revisited by Michael E. Gerber www.upwork.com (Find top quality freelancers!) www.zencastr.com (Find professional help with your podcast!) www.teampodcast.com (For all your podcast production and editing needs! Enter “Help” for 20% off, or just mention that Melvin sent you!) Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session121
My guest today is Opher Ganel, who is the spouse of a mental health practitioner. Although he trained as a physicist, he has a passion for small businesses. In working with his wife in her practice, he has noticed the struggle that many feel around setting rates. That’s our focus for today’s show; we will discuss setting fees in your private practice, which can be an uncomfortable subject. Join me for some helpful information! Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioural health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session120
My guest is Cathy Berman, a private practitioner in Oakland, CA. She began her career as a nurse practitioner in the ob-gyn field. It was a natural transition for her to become a marriage and family therapist who specializes in pregnancy and postpartum issues. Join us for this real and open conversation about Cathy’s practice and her struggles along the journey.   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session119
My guest today is Melissa Thompson, LMFT, who practices in NYC. Our topic is how to create an e-course, which is something she and two colleagues have done. They began with a blog that they expanded upon to provide the e-course for moms. E-courses can be a great way to expand your authority and reach, and they create additional income streams as well. Melissa shares her favorite tools, tips, and what she’s learned in thinking outside the box to meet her clients’ needs. Join us! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session118
Today’s show is Part 2 of Episode 116 with Katie May, a DBT-certified therapist who works with teens in Philadelphia. Katie has been successful in creating therapy groups for her clients and is eager to share her tips. Today’s conversation focuses on setting fees, advertising, and filling groups. Join us for more from Katie!     Today’s Awesome Sponsor: Brighter Vision Sign up using the coupon code COUCH to get a free month of service: http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision
Today’s conversation is with Katie May, from just outside Philadelphia, whose therapy practice specifically focuses on teens and adolescents. Our topic is one that frequently comes up in the STC Facebook community: starting a group within your private practice. With Katie, I’ve found someone who has successfully navigated the ins and outs of this process. In fact, she is known as The Group Guru. She’s figured out what to do and what not to do, so we’re splitting this daunting topic into a two-part conversation. Today we are discussing the format and inspiration for a group, how to structure a group and Katie’s pearls of wisdom. Join us!   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: Brighter Vision Sign up using the coupon code COUCH to get a free month of service: http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision
My guest today is Jason Weiland, who operates his therapy practice in Florida. He is dedicated to helping clients through wilderness retreats and workshops. Jason shares how he has combined his practice and his love of nature in thinking outside the box. His first large-scale wilderness workshop is coming up in June against the beautiful backdrop of the Colorado Rockies. Join us to hear more about this unique offshoot of Jason’s therapy practice!   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: Brighter Vision Sign up using the coupon code COUCH to get a free month of service: http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision
Welcome to my conversation with Dr. Dori Gatter. Dori is a Licensed Professional Counselor in private practice and group practice in West Hartford, Connecticut. We’re talking about an important topic for any practitioner: how to move people from interested callers to actual clients. Join us now!   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session114
Welcome to my conversation with Alison Pidgeon, LPC, in Lancaster, PA. Alison has been successful in expanding her solo practice into a group practice with five clinicians. We’re discussing how she met the challenges, growing pains, and logistical issues of this expansion. She’s done it with courage, resilience, and boldness. Find out more from Alison!   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session113
My guest today is Benjamin Reisterer, LPC, in Grand Rapids, MI. He has successfully accomplished something that is a frequent topic of discussion in the STC Facebook community: he designed and created an app. It’s called MetaFi, and it’s a more efficient way for clients to track emotions on a daily basis. He had to think outside the box and take action to see this idea become a reality. We’ll discuss the process he went through and the lessons he’s learned. Join us for more!   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session112
My guest today is Dr. Katayune (Kat) Kaeni, who is a psychologist in CA specializing in maternal mental health. Our topic is one that comes up frequently in the STC Facebook community. It’s about giving live presentations and workshops. My friend Kat is seen as an authority on this subject because she’s done so many events. She knows the value of presentations as great referral sources and a way to gain potential clients. She also knows how overwhelming the fear of public speaking can be. Join us for this exciting conversation!   Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session111
Welcome! My guest today is Amanda Petrik, LCPC in Topeka, Kansas. In addition to her counseling work, Amanda is also a registered play therapist. She recently made the transition from part-time private practice to full-time, which may sound easier than it actually is! Our discussion today stems from a post Amanda made in the STC Facebook community that got an overwhelming response. Join me to hear how she wrote letters to introduce herself and her practice to healthcare providers in her area, the response she received, and what she’s learned along this unconventional path. Today’s Awesome Sponsor: TheraNest TheraNest helps behavioral health professionals manage their practice with ease and efficiency. Get 21 days free trial and 20% off the monthly fee for the first 3 months: http://sellingthecouch.com/theranest You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session110
My guest today is Dr. Ellis Edmunds, a psychologist in Oakland, CA. Today’s topic is about pursuing your passions and thinking outside the box. Ellis had the idea to create a therapeutic board game based on mindfulness practices. Using his creative talents and great idea for something different and unheard of in his field, Ellis took the leap and made it happen. Join us for his story! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session109
Welcome to a solo episode about a very important topic: Focusing on Your ONE Thing. This episode is an outgrowth of one of my personal goals for 2017, which is to read one business-related book per month. I’ve already read a book that has impacted me greatly and changed the way I approach my business. The book is The One Thing: The Surprisingly Simple Truth Behind Extraordinary Results by Gary Keller and Jay Papasan. The book hones in on the principle that successful businesses with innovative products and services focus on one project at a time, instead of going in many different directions at once. Learn how these principles can positively impact your business. Join me!   You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session108
My guest today is Robbin Rockett, a psychologist in CA who focuses her practice on working primarily with single moms. Our topic is building a private practice around your calling and passion. A greater “WHY” makes your practice more sustainable and gives a different perspective than if you just “have a job.” I’ve tried to make this my personal approach, and I’m excited to chat with Robbin about her experiences. Join us now! You can read the full show notes at: www.sellingthecouch.com/session107
My guest today is Nicole Burgess, LMFT, a friend and clinician from Indianapolis. Nicole’s career has included being an accountant, a business analyst, and now---a clinician and podcaster. Her podcast, Launching Your Daughter, is for parents of teen and tween girls. Today, we are discussing her journey to private practice and what she’s learned about setting realistic goals. Join us! You can read the full show notes at: www.sellingthecouch.com/session106
 Welcome! My guest today is Jennifer Cobb, LCSW in Greensboro, NC. Our topic is one I’ve pondered for awhile. It’s the transition from solo practice to group practice; in other words, how do you make the transition to a private practitioner to acting as a CEO and managing multiple clinicians?  Jennifer has done this successfully and now manages three clinicians in her practice, Guilford Counseling. Let’s talk to Jennifer about the pros and cons of such a move. Join us! You can read the full show notes at: www.sellingthecouch.com/session105 
Welcome to a conversation with my guest, Frances J. Harvey. Frances is an online business manager for clinicians in the mental health industry. She has some very practical tips for hiring an online business manager for your private practice to manage those daily tasks. Do you need to free up your time? Frances shares information that can help. Join us now!   You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session104
We’re off to an exciting start in 2017! I’ll have some upcoming BIG announcements on future shows, so stay tuned to see what’s in store! Today’s guest is Perry Rosenbloom, the founder of Brighter Vision, offering website solutions for health professionals. Perry and his team help private practitioners all over the world, and they know what works and what doesn’t when it comes to your website. I’ve learned a lot from his wisdom, and I know you will, too. Join us!   Visit www.sellingthecouch.com/brightervision for Perry’s ONE MONTH FREE offer to STC listeners!
  Welcome! I’m glad to be back on the podcast after a break over the holidays, and I wish you each a Happy 2017 as we start off this year together! My guest today is Cathy Hanville, LCSW, in Albany, NY. Cathy is very knowledgeable about websites and SEO, and I think her expertise will be helpful to anyone in private practice. Join us now! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session102.    
Today’s topic is how to start a therapeutic group in your practice. My guest has started not one, but two groups in her practice that specializes in trauma. Diane Webb is a licensed mental health clinician in Albany, NY, and she’s happy to share what she has learned from her experience. She covers many aspects of this topic, including the need to approach it with realistic expectations. Join us for more! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session101
Welcome to Episode 100! I’m grateful to all my listeners and very humbled to have come this far. I never dreamed in the beginning that this milestone was possible, but here we are! Today’s episode deserves to be a little different, so I’ve asked for private practice-building tips from some faithful listeners. I think these are helpful to hear, so join us! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session100
Welcome! My guest today is Sarah Gilbert, LCSW in Connecticut. Sarah is a colleague who has been in private practice for about two years and has just reached the milestone of seeing 100 clients. She has wisdom to share about the lessons she’s learned on the journey to a successful private practice. Join me for a great conversation with Sarah!  
 Today’s guest is Jennifer Blough, a counselor in private practice in Ann Arbor, MI. Jennifer’s passion is working within the animal welfare community, specifically in the field of compassion fatigue. She’s here to share details about the dream to write a book, including the emotional and practical aspects of writing from a clinician’s viewpoint. Do you have a book in you? Join us to find out more! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session98
Welcome to session 97—a solo episode! Today we are talking about the benefits of naps. There is so much evidence about the positive effects of naps, and I’ve experienced these firsthand. I regularly take a 25 minute nap EVERY day, and I’ve done this for several years! Unfortunately, there is a stigma around adult naps, like naps are for lazy, non-productive people or just for young kids and the elderly. Many successful people in history have extolled the benefits of naps, like Leonardo da Vinci, Albert Einstein, Eleanor Roosevelt, and Salvador Dali. (Isn’t that an impressive list?) Join me now as I share what I’ve learned on my personal journey as a diehard adult napper. You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session97
My guest today is Jo Muirhead, a rehab counselor in Australia. Jo helps health professionals grow successful practices and has helped clinicians for over 20 years! We’re discussing some great topics today, so join us!   You can access the full show notes and all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session96
Welcome to a helpful and honest look at strengths and weaknesses. My guest is a friend, Beth Luwandi, LPC in Cincinnati, OH. Beth works with mid-lifers in her practice and is the creator and host of the Midlife Love Bites podcast. She describes it as a podcast to address issues of dating, mating, and relating in midlife! Let’s talk with Beth about using strengths to address weaknesses as entrepreneurs. Join us! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session95 
Welcome! My guest today is Lourdes Viado, LMFT, in private practice in Las Vegas, NV. We are discussing the private practice journey, its fears and challenges, and how to be successful. You’ll be captivated by Lourdes’ words of wisdom, authenticity, and transparency. Join us!  
Today’s guest is Sarah Leitschuh, LMFT in Minnesota. Sarah has been a very active member of the STC Facebook community for a LONG time. I’ve wanted to have her on the show ever since she wrote a popular blog post about an important topic: How Comparison can Steal our Joy. For clinicians and people in other professions as well, this is an important topic about which we can probably all use some encouragement and inspiration. Join us! You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session93   Today's Awesome Sponsor:Kelly and Miranda! Go to http://sellingthecouch.com/kellyandmiranda and take the Mini Business School Bootcamp and get access to free trainings on private practice that therapists rave about, and that can help you make the change you need to have the happy practice that you want.   
Welcome to this solo session about my morning routine. I know this is a different sort of topic than we normally cover, but I’ve been so impressed with my own improved productivity that I just have to share with you what I’ve found that works for me. Maybe you will find elements that you can incorporate into your own morning routine to improve your day, your health, and your mindset. Join us! You can read the show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session92   Today's Awesome Sponsor:Kelly and Miranda! Go to http://sellingthecouch.com/kellyandmiranda and take the Mini Business School Bootcamp and get access to free trainings on private practice that therapists rave about, and that can help you make the change you need to have the happy practice that you want.     
Welcome! My guest today is Liz Higgins, LMFT Associate, in the Dallas area. Liz has a private practice that specializes in relationships and marriages of millennials. Instead of focusing on a particular diagnosis, Liz focuses her practice on an entire population. I’ve been intrigued by this and I’m thrilled to learn more along with our listeners. You may wonder what a “millennial” is, and why a therapist would choose to target that group for her clientele. Those topics and more are the focus of our conversation, so join us! Today's Awesome Sponsor:Kelly and Miranda! Go to http://sellingthecouch.com/kellyandmiranda and take the Mini Business School Bootcamp and get access to free trainings on private practice that therapists rave about, and that can help you make the change you need to have the happy practice that you want.     
My guest for today’s conversation is Dr. Jessica Dolgan, a psychologist and one of the founders of Therapy Partner. Jessica practices in Denver, serving adolescents and young adults with therapy needs. Therapy Partner provides electronic health record services for healthcare providers and clinicians. Today, our conversation surrounds the trends in healthcare and practical information for mental health providers and private practice clinicians. Join us! You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session90
Welcome! My guest today is Jennifer McGurk, a registered nutritionist and dietician in Nyack, NY. She works with clinicians who see clients with eating disorders. Our topic is a recurring one within the STC community; we’re talking about how to build relationships and expand referral networks with clinicians and non-clinicians. Join us!   You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session89.   Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to get your first month free!  
Today’s guest is Roy Huggins of Person Centered Tech Support. He is the biggest expert I know about how technology and safety intersect in today’s world. Specifically, we’re talking about the things you should consider when you correspond with clients via email. Join us!   You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session88.   Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to get your first month free!  
Welcome! My guest today is Jim Jonas, LICSW, LMFT in Minnesota. Jim has expanded his practice to six different locations. Our topic is about selecting a location for your private practice and how to secure additional locations when you need to expand. Who better to explore this topic than someone who has been through the ins and outs? Join us! You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session87.   Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to get your first month free!  
Welcome to a super-informational show! Our topic is electronic health records, known as EHR. In today’s digital age, we as clinicians are moving away from paper records, but there are important factors to consider. Rob Reinhardt, LPC, is here to help us with technical and practical tips in this area. Join us! You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session86   Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to get your first month free!  
Welcome! My guest today is Allison Puryear from the Abundance Practice Building community. Allison practices in Asheville, NC, and has a thriving coaching business for private practitioners. You may recognize her as my guest for Episode 49: Transitioning from Employee to Private Practice Owner. Today’s topic is one that is a struggle for many of us: Learning to say NO as a business owner. Why is saying NO such a hard thing? How does this apply to private practice? We’ll talk about these questions and more as we look at fees, niching, sliding scales, and boundaries. Join me for a great conversation with Allison! You can read the full show notes and access all the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session85
Welcome! My guest today is Daniel Fava, a web designer who helps therapists and private practitioners create and market their professional websites. The “nerd” in me is excited about what we can all learn from this conversation! Dan is discussing how potential clients experience your website. Are you doing it right or are there improvements that need to be made to maximize the space? Listen to the episode and find out! You won't want to miss these practical tips! You can read all the show notes and access the links and resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session84    
Welcome! My guest today is Sovann Pen, a Licensed Professional Counselor in Portland, OR. Sovann is here to talk about his private practice journey, the fears he faced, and what has kept him going. I hope you’ll join us and learn from the amazing tips in this conversation! You can read the full show notes and access all the resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session83   Today's sponsor is Therapy Partner. Therapy Partner, 3.0 Is Uniquely Designed For Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Therapists In Private Practice...Finally! All Your Business Of Practice Tasks Can Be Completed Using A Single Device…Available From Your Computer, Tablet, or Smart Phone. Check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner
Today’s guest is John Harrison, a Licensed Professional Counselor in private practice in Cincinnati. John is here to discuss the need to “roll with the tough times” in private practice. Tough times are inevitable, and John has great pearls of wisdom about the ebbs and flows in our business. Join us!   You can read the full show notes and access all the resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session82   Today's sponsor is Therapy Partner. Therapy Partner, 3.0 Is Uniquely Designed For Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Therapists In Private Practice...Finally! All Your Business Of Practice Tasks Can Be Completed Using A Single Device…Available From Your Computer, Tablet, or Smart Phone. Check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner
Welcome! My guest today is Dr. Vanessa Scaringi, a psychologist in Austin, TX. She’s an active member of our STC Facebook community and is a great fit to share about her experience in private practice. Let’s talk with Vanessa! You can read the full show notes and access all the resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session81   Today's sponsor is Therapy Partner. Therapy Partner, 3.0 Is Uniquely Designed For Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Therapists In Private Practice...Finally! All Your Business Of Practice Tasks Can Be Completed Using A Single Device…Available From Your Computer, Tablet, or Smart Phone. Check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner  
Welcome! Today’s episode is Part 2 of last week’s session with Clay Cockrell, LCSW in NY. Listen to Part 1 if you haven’t yet, and then you will have a comprehensive picture of what Online Counseling can do for YOUR practice.  Let’s jump right in! You can read the full show notes and access all the resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session80     Today's sponsor is Therapy Partner. Therapy Partner, 3.0 Is Uniquely Designed For Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Therapists In Private Practice...Finally! All Your Business Of Practice Tasks Can Be Completed Using A Single Device…Available From Your Computer, Tablet, or Smart Phone. Check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner  
Welcome! My guest today is Clay Cockrell, LCSW. Interestingly enough, I read an article about Clay while in graduate school. It was about his “Walk and Talk Therapy” in Central Park in NYC, which intrigued me while blowing my mind. Who knew that I would have the opportunity to connect with Clay again on this podcast? Clay has since transitioned to online counseling and has even created an online directory for online counselors. We are dividing this broad topic into two parts, so we’ll cover it in this week’s and next week’s show. Let’s learn more about this relatively new tool in the world of private practice. To view the full show notes and access all the resources, go to www.sellingthecouch.com/79    Today's sponsor is Therapy Partner. Therapy Partner, 3.0 Is Uniquely Designed For Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Therapists In Private Practice...Finally! All Your Business Of Practice Tasks Can Be Completed Using A Single Device…Available From Your Computer, Tablet, or Smart Phone. Check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner
Welcome! Today’s guest is Michelle Lewis, LCSW, a clinician in Salt Lake City. Her practice focuses on bariatric surgery and the issues of weight loss and eating disorders. Michelle is an active member of the STC Facebook community, and I’ve been intrigued by her ability to use the boost feature for her blog posts. She’s here to share her secrets and best tips with us! Join us!   Today's sponsor is Therapy Partner. Therapy Partner, 3.0 Is Uniquely Designed For Psychiatrists, Psychologists, and Therapists In Private Practice...Finally! All Your Business Of Practice Tasks Can Be Completed Using A Single Device…Available From Your Computer, Tablet, or Smart Phone. Check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner You can read the full show notes and access resources at www.sellingthecouch.com/session78
Welcome! My guest today is Corey Busch, a Marriage and Family Therapist in Minneapolis, MN. Corey has experience using public speaking as a way to grow his practice, whether it’s in getting referrals, building relationships, or securing paid engagements. Let’s explore this topic with Corey!   We'd like to thank today's sponsor, Therapy Partner. To check out all the benefits of this wonderful software, check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/therapypartner   You can check out the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session77
Welcome! My guest today is Howard Spector, the founder of Simple Practice, a practice management software company for therapists. Howard shares what he’s learned about handling the day-to-day grind on his journey to being a successful business owner. Our topic today is Taking on an Entrepreneurial Mindset. Join us for more! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session76
Welcome! Today’s guest is a therapist in private practice in Asheville, NC. Paul Fuglesang is the founder of Open Path Collective, which connects clinicians and individuals seeking therapists with sliding scale fees. This is a wonderful new platform to help people, and Paul is here to tell us all that we need to know about sliding scale fees. Join us!   You can view the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session75.
Welcome! Do you love a great story? Why do we all feel a connection to stories? As a private practitioner, how do you share yourself in story without crossing boundaries? Today’s guest is Marisa Goudy, a writing coach who works with helpers and healers to help them connect with clients by using story. Join us!   You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session74
Welcome! My guest today is Cath Cleveland, an occupational therapist from Melbourne, Australia. As therapists, we SIT all day long; have you ever thought about YOUR posture? Ergonomically speaking, therapists should consider their posture, whether good or bad and its long-term impact on their bodies. It is very common for therapists to look after their clients but NOT themselves. Let’s see what Cath has to teach us! You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session73 Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to get your first month free!    
Welcome to Part 2 of my conversation with Tiffany McLain. If you
haven’t listened to Part 1, then I invite you to do that first.
Tiffany has a passion to help practitioners tackle money shame and
the struggles involved in setting fees. Tiffany recently wrote a
blog article entitled The Top Ten Myths Therapists
Believe about Setting Fees. Last week’s podcast covered
the first five myths, and today we discuss the rest. Join us!
 
You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session72
Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t
forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to
get your first month free!
 
Welcome! Today’s episode is Part 1 of a conversation with
Tiffany McLain, MFT. This episode came out of a blog post by
Tiffany entitled, “The Top Ten Myths Therapists Believe about
Setting Fees.” This topic was covered in Episode 51 in my interview
with Jane Carter, so please go back and listen if you need some
help with “money shame.” Join me---let’s jump into this topic with
Tiffany!
You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session71
Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t
forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to
get your first month free!
Welcome! Today’s guest is Rebecca Wong. She’s a private practitioner who is really thinking outside the box and doing some amazing things in her private practice. 
Rebecca is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker and she is creating an amazing practice. She has niched her practice in a very creative way, so I get to talk to her about how she built her niche private pay practice in a small town. She’s building courses, launching a podcast, and has a stellar blog.
 
Today’s awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision, so don’t forget to check them out at http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision to get your first month free!
Welcome! My guest today is Jeff Guenther, who is an LPC in Portland, Oregon. Jeff is here to share some of his expertise about creating an effective online profile. Specifically, we’ll discuss how to improve the wording on profiles and what an effective “call to action” should be. Join us!
Today's awesome sponsor is Brighter Vision. To find out how they can create a beautiful website for your practice visit: 
 http://sellingthecouch.com/brightervision
You can find the complete show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session69
Welcome! My guest today is Renee Beck, a Marriage and Family Therapist in Oakland, CA. Renee works with alternative healers and artists and specializes in dream work and transpersonal therapy. Our topic is incorporating supervision into your journey in private practice. Renee has been supervising and training interns for 30 years, and 50% of her current practice is related to supervision; you can see that she is definitely the “voice of experience” on this topic! Let’s dive right in with Renee!
You can read the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session68
Welcome! Today’s guest is Robert Cox, a mental health clinician in private practice who recently launched a podcast.  Robert became quite an expert in the field of autism, but then branched  into helping those recovering from addiction. His podcast is The Mindful Recovery Podcast, and is available at the normal podcast outlets. Let’s hear what Robert has to share!
You can get the full show notes at www.sellingthecouch.com/session67
Today’s guest is Dr. Robin Norris, LMFT, in Sterling, VA. Robin works hard every day at being a parent of two young children AND being a clinician in private practice. She’s here to talk about the practical steps she has taken to perform well at both roles. 
You can read the full show notes at http://sellingthecouch.com/session66
Welcome to our ONE-YEAR Anniversary show! It’s so hard to believe we’ve been on this journey for a whole year now! Thanks for being a part of the STC family! Today’s guest is a good friend, Jackie Flynn, who is a Registered Play Therapist in Florida. Jackie has made the transition from being solely a private practice practitioner to consulting. Jackie has unique skills and experiences with which she can connect and help people. Join me for the conversation with Jackie!
You can find the full show notes and all the resources at http://sellingthecouch.com/session65
Welcome! My guest today is Dana Hampson, who is inprivate practice in Alabama. Our topic is increasing efficiency in the day to day operation of a private practice. Efficiency is not a common topic, but the lack of it can waste time, lead to burnout,
etc. Dana has had to learn how to run an efficient practice, as she employs four other clinicians. She readily admits to being an “efficiency nerd,” so let’s hear what Dana has to say!
 
 
You can listen to the full show notes here.
Welcome! Today’s guest is Marie Dauterive, who is a registered Marriage and Family Therapy Intern in Florida. We are talking about how to build a heart-centered practice. Her desire to have a heart-centered practice has influenced all her decision about finding a supervisor, location, clients, and marketing. Join us!
You can read the full show notes here.
Welcome! Today’s guest is Samara Stone, who is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker in Baltimore, MD. Samara is here to discuss a topic that clinicians don’t talk about very much: building an insurance-based private practice. Samara has done this successfully, and she has some tips to share with us. Join me as we hear more from Samara!
You can view the full show notes here.
Welcome! My guest today is Dr. Agnes Wainman, who is a super active member of the STC Facebook community. Recently she created a post that went viral with many likes and responses. Her post was about how her private practice has blossomed and changed drastically over the last year. Agnes is not afraid to be open and vulnerable about her journey and what she calls “the messy middle” of her story. Join us!
 
Welcome! It is unbelievable that this episode brings us to #60! Thanks to all my listeners! Today’s guest is Danielle Kepler, who is a Licensed Clinical Professional Counselor in Chicago. Danielle successfully made the transition last April from a group practice to a solo practice. Dealing with transferring your paneling with insurance providers, also known as switching your credentials, can be intimidating. Danielle has navigated the process and is here to share what she’s learned with us! Don't miss it!
 
My guest today is Nicole Bonsol, who worked in the mental health field before launching into independent work in music and writing. She’s here to share her expert advice on creating an “About” page. If you have a website, or might have one in the future, then this episode is for YOU! Don't miss it!
 
My guest today is Ryan Lee, who is the first person to start a membership site in the health and wellness field. He is here to share his expert advice about Creating a Membership Site. Do you have something to teach others and want recurring, passive income? This may be the perfect episode for you!
 
Today's episode features Brian Zirngible, LMFT. Brian's story is important because he is in the process of transitioning from group practice to private practice. Hearing his story as he is in the midst of this transition will be helpful to those who are working towards the same goals. Don't miss it!
 
There is almost no one who is more suited to give advice in overcoming adversity and struggles than Tanner. He is an excellent role model for anyone who has been severely injured or handicapped in some way, but has adversity stopped him from great accomplishment? NO! Join me and prepare to be inspired!
 
Today’s episode is the second in a two-part series about creating an E-Course. In last week’s episode, I talked about planning and researching your course, finding an audience, and the basic gear needed to begin. Today’s focus is on distributing your course, along with how to accept payments and set fees. I’ll also divulge some of the mistakes I’ve made and things I would do differently next time.
 
Today’s show is the first of a two-part series covering the steps in creating an E-Course. Specificallly, today’s section will cover creating and selling an E-Course. I have had experience in this since I created my Healthcasters E-Course, and I’ve definitely made many mistakes that I’m happy to share with you. Statistics show that the self-improvement industry is a $10-11 billion industry, so we know that there are a lot people who crave knowledge and want to learn. Join me for more!
Today’s guest is Jaree Freeman, who is a podcasting friend who has owned multiple businesses. We are discussing a topic today that is difficult to confront, and it’s one that hits close to home for me. The topic is “entrepreneur burnout.” This topic is especially applicable to clinicians because of our unique profession. Our abilities to think clearly and be present with our clients are important in every aspect of our work. If we struggle with burnout in our private practice or small business, then we cannot be effective on any level. Jaree is here to share what she has learned through her experiences as an entrepreneur.
 
 My guest today is Tanisha Sapp, who is a Licensed Professional Counselor in Georgia. Tanisha is here to address a highly-requested topic among those in private practice: how to expand your practice and add other clinicians. 
 
In this episode of Selling the Couch, Jane Carter talks with Melvin about money.  It's hard for clinicians to charge for their services many times, and Jane and Melvin talk about ways to overcome the stigma around money.
In this episode of Selling the Couch, Kat Love comes on the show to talk about your website.  Getting your practice online isn't the end of it - it's so much more than that!  Kat shares some very practical tips for enhancing your website and making it more user friendly and more SEO friendly.
Welcome! Today’s guest is Allison Puryear, LCSW and eating disorder therapist in Asheville, NC. One topic that has come up frequently among the STC Facebook community is the idea of transitioning from working for an employer to beginning your own private practice.  Allison is the perfect guest to share her experiences regarding this transition; she has done this twice, in two different states! Join the conversation with Allison!
 
Welcome!  Today’s guest is Dr. Cory Bank, who was the very first guest on Episode 1!  Cory focuses on consulting, online coaching, and teaching others.  He is an expert on creating multiple streams of income for professionals, and that’s the focus of our conversation today.  Join us!
 
Welcome to another episode!  My guest today is Jasmine Adams, who is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker with her own private practice.  Jasmine is here to talk about how she made the decision to go into private practice, along with all the factors to consider before taking that step.  She is a success story with many great tips.  Join us!
Jasmine decided to enter the world of private practice because a colleague emailed her and offered her some office space.  This was the spark she needed to make the leap.  Listen as Jasmine details the following about her journey:

The benefits of private practice are primarily freedom and flexibility.
Entering private practice isn’t as difficult as you might think.  1-2 consistent monthly clients can keep the practice afloat.
Every practitioner faces fears when going out into private practice.  Jasmine’s biggest fear was, “What if I don’t get any clients?”
Jasmine focused on networking with colleagues to get tips about getting started.
Criteria to consider in choosing an office space are colleagues/officemates, neighborhood, and distance from home.
One of Jasmine’s benefits of the location she chose is that a college is nearby and has become a referral source for her.
Jasmine talked to colleagues to set rates that were fair and competitive for her area.
Practitioners often have to believe that their knowledge and experience are worth what they charge their clients.
Jasmine formed a Mastermind Group of colleagues because she felt that she needed that extra peer support.  It’s been a huge success so far!
In the Hot Couch Round, Jasmine talks about her daily self-care that brings her joy, online resources (like the STC podcast!) that help her, and how she advises anyone starting out to focus on creating a great website.  
Her tip for other practitioners?  “Fake it til you make it!”

Thanks for checking out Jasmine’s story and for supporting the podcast.  Have a great week!
Links and Resources:
jasmineadamslcsw@gmail.com
www.jasmineadamslcsw.net
Call 213-324-6063 to reach Jasmine.
In this episode, Patricia Gonzalez shares how she knew she was destined for private practice while she was still in grad school.  She took massive action and was able to get the supervisor she needed for her internship, and now she is charting her path towards private practice.
 
 
 
Today's guest is Jared DeFife.  Jared has become the go to resource for creating a great Psychology Today profile.  He is here today to tell you how you can do it too!
 
In this episode of Selling the Couch, Melvin interviews Dr. Traci Lowenthal.  Track has 2 private practice locations, and she's here today to share her private practice journey, as well as the common mistakes almost all new private practitioners make.
In this episode, our guest Mercedes Samudio shares her best tips for using Periscope to promote your private practice.  Mercedes is a clinician who uses Periscope and has found that it has greatly benefitted her practice.  She gives you her best tips for making Periscope a valuable part of your social media efforts.  
In this episode of Selling the Couch, we have special guest Ernesto Segismundo on the show to share his best practices for using video to promote your practice.  Ernesto uses video through a variety of channels for his practice and he is here to show us how to get started.
In this episode of Selling the Couch, Melvin Varghese share 5 tips for building great mastermind groups.  Melvin credits his mastermind with much of his business success and shares 5 ways to form a mastermind that will take your business to the next level.
 
Welcome!  My guest today is Neil Patel, who teaches people how to optimize their SEO (search engine optimization).  You may not know his name, but you’ve probably used his products.  He is the creator of Hello Bar, which is an opt-in bar at the top of websites.  He also developed “Crazy Egg,” which is heat-tracking software to let you know where visitors are traveling on your website and where they are clicking.  Neil is the go-to person regarding SEO for large companies like Amazon and Viacom, and he has been recognized by President Obama and the UN as one of the top entrepreneurs in the world.  Neil is here to share information about websites and general blog posts regarding SEO.  Join us!
SEO is basically the art and science of ranking on Google or other search engines.  There are definite characteristics of websites with high SEO:

A good product, service, and content
Links to other websites and resources
Social shares

Neil advises the following to optimize SEO:

Sign up for Google search consul.
Submit to Google maps to let them know where you are.
Submit to local directories.
Consider using GetListed.org to increase your local traffic.

For private practitioners, Neil recommends keeping your code clean, including links to other sites, and blogging to keep your content current and helpful.
Neil shares the following general tips for optimizing SEO:

The key to blog posts is consistent content.
Using tools for key words will increase traffic.
Key word estimators, like Google Traffic Estimator, will give you information about what people are searching for.

Neil points out common mistakes that people often make:

Failing to update websites with regular blog posts
Failing to make their website compatible with mobile devices
Failing to link their blog posts to each other when they concern related topics

Neil discusses the link between social shares and SEO rankings, the reason for vacillating rankings, and the easiest way to get started on your website.  Join us for this valuable information and more!
Links and Resources:
www.quicksprout.com  
www.neilpatel.com
Neil has information and free guides available on his websites.
 
 
 
Welcome!  Today’s session is all about In-Person Networking.  Think of networking as an opportunity to build relationships.  My guest is Natalie Moore, who is a Marriage and Family Therapist intern who has developed some great skills in building face-to-face relationships.  She has great tips to share with us, so join us!
Natalie shares the following about networking:

What therapists are best at is connecting with people.
Face-to-face encounters can set you apart from the rest of the pack.
One way to put yourself in networking situations is to utilize www.meetup.com to meet new people in your preferred field.
Natalie also uses email lists from local organizations to track their upcoming events.
Natalie recommends having an “elevator pitch” that you can deliver in “bullet point” style that sounds natural.
It’s important to know who your target market is.
Natalie says that everyone is a potential referral source, so you should meet as many people as possible and follow up with the most promising ones.
Natalie says that other therapists are usually the best referral source for her.

Natalie has great tips on building networking relationships, so join us for more!
Links and Resources:
 
www.awakentheself.com  (Natalie’s website)
In this episode of Selling The Couch, writing expert Glenn Liebowitz joins us to talk about blogging for your private practice.  Not only does Glenn have tons of experience blogging, he is also a top ranked LinkedIn blogger.  You won't want to miss the ways to extend your reach through building a blog on LinkedIn.
 
In this episode, Sharon Martin reveals how to blog for your private practice.  There are ways to do it so that you grow your business, increase your visibiity and become an authority.  Sharon shows us how!
In this episode, Dr. Rebecca Jorgensen shares how she transitioned from clinician to trainer.  Now, she successfully uses the skills she has learned to train others in her expertise.  Rebecca conducts training in a variety of modalities and she is here to share with us how we can do it too!
In this episode of Selling the Couch, we have our first repeat guest - Ker Nola.  Keri is back today to discuss ways to grow your practice through retreats, workshops and groups.  She shares a lot of great ideas about this new revenue stream for your practice.
In this episode of Selling the Couch, Tony Woodall shares his expertise in goald setting.  As host of the Goal Getting podcast, Tony coached others through the steps needed to not just set goals, but to achieve them.  
In this episode, we have special guest Shelly Davidescu on to share with us the impact of proper food and drink on our ability to practice.  Using proper nutrition and hydration techniques, you can actually improve your clinical abilities.  Shelly explains how.
Welcome to today’s show!  My guest today is . . . ME!  Yes, it’s a solo podcast episode about one of my favorite topics, which is podcasting.  I’m talking about USING PODCASTING TO BUILD YOUR BUSINESS.  I’ve learned a lot on my own podcasting journey of several hundred hours over the last few months, and I hope some of my tips will help anyone else looking to start their podcast. 
 
This episode features the dynamic duo of Miranda Palmer and Kelly Higdon.  They share practical tips and strategies on how to build your private pay practice in any community. We cover the top questions practitioners have when considering this option for your practice.  Join the 3 of us for this important discussion!
Dr. Maelisa Hall specializes in helping clinicians get their paperwork in order.  She learned early on in her practice that other clinicians weren't loving the part of their job that involves paperwork and the documentation of the case notes.  Maelisa began showing others how to make their paperwork easy!
Welcome!  My guest today is Nick Pavlidis, who is a husband, father, attorney, blogger, podcaster, author, and a friend of mine.  Nick conducts two successful podcasts:  “Five Minutes with Dad,” and “Confessions of a Terrible Husband.”  As an outgrowth of his blogs and podcasts, Nick has written a book, Confessions of a Terrible Husband: Lessons Learned from  Lumpy Couch.  Nick is here to talk about the writing process because you never know when you may have a book that needs to be written!
Nick’s inspiration for writing came from the realization that he was “a terrible husband.”  Ironically, he THOUGHT he was doing everything right for his family, but realized he wasn’t focusing on the right things.  Nick says of his family:  “I was taking FROM them much more than I was providing FOR them by working so much.”  Nick’s book is the process he undertook to focus on improving his marriage and family life.
He shares the following tips for someone undertaking such a vulnerable writing topic:

Consider the “other” person in your relationship and their feelings.
Be open, honest, and RESPECTFUL.
Determine your mindset, perspective, and ideal reader.  Nick says he wrote “to my best friend with my mother listening.”
Write with this question in mind, “What can I do to improve my relationship?”
Nick found it helpful to write in “sprints.”  He wrote for blocks of time over a short period, and then took a couple of weeks off.

Nick shares details about the following aspects of the writing process:

Organization---Nick found it worked best for him to write huge sections then organize it later.
Environment---Nick found the perfect environment for his writing at a local McDonald’s.  No kidding!  Listen to find out why this worked so well for him!
Inspiration---Nick found his inspiration through talking to older couples who endured life’s struggles in their marriage.
Perspective---You can’t write to “everybody,” but you have to visualize that person or type of person to whom you’re writing.
Purpose---You will connect best with readers through a single focus and purpose.
Voice---Even though Nick had written countless legal documents and papers in his career, THIS kind of writing was very different.  Find out what helped him develop his conversational tone.

I hope you will join us for these topics and so much more from Nick!  He tells us about his favorite software package for writing and how that helped him in the process.  Whether you think you may ever write a book or not, Nick has great tips for everyone.  Join us!
Links and Resources:
Aterriblehusband.com   ( Nick’s website and podcast)
 
 
 
Most private practice clinicians have the same aversion to marketing as I do.  Today Ana Melikian reveals the best way to book yourself solid, without focusing on sales and marketing.  There isn't anything that we could make a private practice clinician more happy than hearing those words!
 
Welcome!  My guest today is Alexandra Saperstein, who is a licensed professional counselor in Portland, OR.  Alexandra has worked in full-time private practice specializing in couples therapy for over five years.
Alexandra worked in Bulgaria for the Peace Corps from 1998-2000.  She gained a philosophy from this work that carries over to her therapy work today.  A Peace Corps supervisor told her, “We want you to work yourself out of a job.”  She tells couples that her goal with their therapy is to “work herself out of a job.”  Her desire is to help the couple, and then send them on to enjoy doing other things with their time and money that are much more enjoyable than therapy sessions!
In our conversation, Alexandra gives insight about the following topics:

Alexandra’s interest in couples’ therapy stemmed from the transformation she witnessed in her parents!
Couples’ therapy differs in some ways than other therapies because of the pain and level of crisis.
Alexandra’s philosophy has been formed by her advanced training at the Gottman Institute in Seattle and her RLT (Relational Life Therapy) training through Terry Real in Boston.  She is an interactive and confrontational therapist.
Couples’ therapy calls for longer sessions.  Alexandra offers sessions ranging from 90 minutes to as long as an all-day session!
Alexandra offers FREE 15-20-minute phone consultations to help ensure a “good fit” between the couple and herself.
Alexandra freely offers referrals to specially-trained therapists in cases of addiction and domestic violence.
Most clients are looking for RELIEF from the turmoil of the relationship.
The length of treatment time varies greatly from couple to couple.
Alexandra is very excited about how RLT training has made her a better therapist.  Listen to find out how!

In the Hot Couch Round, Alexandra discusses her favorite daily habit, online resource, business book, and what she would do if starting over in private practice.  Her one tip for someone starting out in private practice is this: “Don’t be afraid to make a good living, and don’t feel guilty about it!”  Join us for all these topics and SO MUCH MORE!
Links and Resources:
 
Alexandrasaperstein.com
Ryan Maher explains how private practitioners can use Instagram to get traffic to your website.  Ryan also provides tips and strategies to get more followers and engage with your fans.
Rachel Moore is a the beginning of her counseling career, and already she has embarked on her private practice journey.  She has built a private practice as an intern, and she is also doing volunteer work for Hospice as an unpaid intern.  Her goal is to get as much experience as possible and to build a thriving private practice!
You will love hearing Rachel's drive and passion for her private practice!
Selling the Couch Host, Melvin Varghese reveals his best kept secret for building his email list, and getting a high open rate for each campaign.
Hal Elrod takes us through his journey of dying in a car accident, to developing habits that have changed his life.  He began the miracle morning as a way to pull himself out of his lowest point, when he lost his business and wanted to hide.  Hal has a contagious mindset of positivity that he shares with everyone he encounters.
Eric Tivers, host of the ADHD Rewired Podcast shares his journey to building his own private therapy practice.  Eric also reveals how his diagnosis of ADHD has impacted the path his practice has taken.
Jeff Sieh of Manly Pinterest Tips discusses the best way to use Pinterest to drive traffic back to your website and build your brand.
Lynn Grodzki shares her best strategies to build a successful private practice through relationship building and integrity marketing.
Larry Becker is well known as the video reviewer of cameras for B&H Photo, the largest online camera store.  In his latest endeavor, Larry is now training other small businesses to use video to market their products and services, as the Video Marketing Guy.
Best practices for building your practice and charging what you're worth.
Namrata Rindani-McMahill shares the keys to build a practice that you can love every day of the week.
Jordan Sybrant reveals his secrets to conquer fear in order to grow your business.
Jordan shares his personal experience with feeling inadequate and doubting if he could ever be a success.  Jordan is open and vulnerable in order to help others build and grow a practice they love.
 
Casey Truffo reveals 5 Keys to Running a Successful Business.  Tips in this interview help you focus on becoming the CEO of your practice.
I have learned so many things from starting a podcast, so I thought I would share my top 5 lessons with you.  This is my first solo episode, so I take you behind the scenes, where we look at my numbers, my strategies and my best tips for getting your business started.
Of course, we will still be doing interviews, but I will do these solo episode frequently, so I can share with you the things I am learning.
My hope is that you can use these lessons as you build your practice, so you can avoid some of the mistakes that I have made.
 
Valerie Shoopman is one of the world's top experts on running ads through Facebook.  In fact, she's run Facebook Ad campaigns for "A-list" entrepreneurs like John Lee Dumas and Nick Unsworth.  Today's session is an intro to FB Ads for private practitoners. In this session, you’ll learn the important questions to ask when thinking about running a Facebook Ad, how to conduct preliminary research prior to running an Ad, the big "No No's" of running Facebook Ads, how much to spend on Ads, how long to run Ad's for, and how to create a lead magnet (something that incentivizes website visitors to sign up for a newsletter) and landing page.
Deb Owens talks about her private practice journey in today's session of Selling The Couch.  In this session, you’ll learn what Deb learned from being on insurance panels versus private pay, some small changes you can make in your office to make clients feel more comfortable, Deb's screening process to make sure that clients are a good fit, how to decide whether to put session fees on your website, the importance of language on a private practice website, how Deb explains informed consent to her clients, some tips about personal disclosure on a private practice website, and the biggest business lesson Deb learned from her time in private practice. 
Today's session is all about how mental health private practitioners can land local media interviews in order to build credibility and authority.  Melvin talks with Betsy Fitzpatrick on ways to find contact information for local media, how to reach out when you find this information, best ways to prepare for an interview, websites to find "evergreen" topics to talk about, and best practices on interview day.
My guest today is Mari Lee, LMFT, CSAT-S.  Mari has an amazing story of being in foster care as a child to building a very successful private practice where she focuses on helps individuals who struggle with sex addiction.  In this episode, you’ll learn: Mari's favorite quotes that can be valuable as you take the leap into private practice, practical tips to balance work and life so you don't burn out in private practice, tools to help you create a vision for your private practice, and ways to create an online store for products for clients and colleagues. 
My guest today is Laura Reagan, a paralegal turned clinical social worker who launched a private pay practice in May 2013.  In this episode, you’ll learn: Laura's tips on how to overcome voices of naysayers who say that it's not possible to build a private pay practice; how to create animated introductory videos for your website; Laura’s best tip for someone who's just getting started in private practice; and How Laura balances private practice with blogging.  
Tips to build website trust.  In today's episode, you'll learn simple tweaks to build trust on your private practice website with our featured guest Becky Degrossa.  More specifically, you’ll learn areas of your website to focus on to build trust, the line between too little and too much self disclosure, common mistakes that push website visitors away, who to ask to get testimonials from, and an example of a powerful testimonial.
How to write for larger blogs. Today's guest, Michael Formica is a certified counselor, life coach, and regular columnist for the Huffington Post and Psychology Today.  In this episode, you’ll learn to let go of perfectionism and take action, a powerful exercise to improve creativity, how to find guest blogging opportunities with larger blogs and publications, and tips and resources to become a better writer.
How therapists can get great audio. In this episode, you’ll learn about: What makes great audio, Why good audio matters on your private practice website, Simple tricks to get better sound, and recommended (and very reasonably priced) gear.  
 
Tips to build a insurance0free practice.  Can you build a private pay practice in this day and age?  That is the question that Keri Nola and I explore in Session 4 of the Selling the Couch podcast.  Keri’s a licensed psychotherapist who helps therapists build the private practice of their dreams.  In this episode, you’ll learn about: How to overcome the fear of telling a client that you’re private pay, how to use “out of network benefits” for a client who wants to use their insurance, what to say to clients when discussing an increase in fees, how often to consider increasing fees, and how do setup a practice so you can increase fees as demand increases.
How use Twitter to market your counseling private practice. Today's podcast is with my friend Bud Hennekes (the guy has been on Twitter since 2008 and landed three jobs using Twitter!).  Bud's the guy I go to with quetsions about Twitter. In this episode, you’ll learn about the mindset that makes a difference on Twitter, how Bud searches for topics and engages with others on Twitter, the “psychology” behind Twitter, how to stand out on Twitter, a huge mistake that many people make on Twitter and what to do instead, and ways that therapists can use Twitter to get the word out about their services.
 
Camille McDaniel shares how she's building a thriving private practice even though she started just a few years ago. Camille talks about the moment she knew that she had to make the leap into private practice, how she worked through the initial struggles, and the her advice for someone who’s just starting out.  In this episode, you’ll learn about a quote that inspires Camille on a daily basis, the moment where Camille decided that she was getting too comfortable and how it lead her to take the leap into private practice, how not doing her research beforehand let to this big mistake when starting out, how adding video on her website has impacted referrals, how adding a spiritual orientation on her website has impacted referrals, and the first step that Camille would take if she wanted to start a private practice and only had $500 and her laptop.
 
Dr. Cory Bank is a sports psychologist in private practice.  In today's session, Cory shares about his private practice journey that started 15 years ago.  After today's session, you’ll learn a quote that inspires Cory on a daily basis, how Cory worked through the fears and insecurities of starting his private practice, the one mistake that Cory made that set him back financially with his private practice, what Cory tells his graduate students and coaching clients about how much to charge, a daily habit that Cory believes contributes to his success, the book that Cory recently finished that has him thinking about his business in a different light.
Selling the Couch is the podcast that helps mental health providers build and grow their counseling private practices.  Many of us go into private practice but are taught very little about owning a small business. We quickly get overwhelmed and some of us burn out.  To help, I'm interviewing successful clinicians about the "business side" of private practice (e.g., how they get referrals, their best advice for new practitioners, etc.) as well as business, marketing, and social media experts to help us become better business owners.  In this episode,  you'll learn how this podcast can help you especially if you're a new to a therapy private practice or dream of owning a private practice one day, some of the guests that are coming on the show, where the Idea for the Selling the Couch podcast came from, the format of the podcast and where you can can listen and download Show Notes, a Resource Page, and Tax Write-off Checklist I put together for mental health private practitioners, and more about the man, the mystery that is Melvin Varghese.